now kovid19 has disproportionately
impacted the uk's black and
asian communities uh the actor david
harwood wanted to find out why
he's been exploring the issue for a new
bbc documentary we'll speak to him in a
moment let's have a look
almost 65 percent of the population in
brent are of black african
afro-caribbean pakistani bangladeshi or
other minority ethnic origin
[Music]
how long has this market been here
mohammed
oh over 20 years you can really see the
diversity here
because everyone everybody's here
africans and
caribbean asians everybody come to this
market to sell their wares
you know kobe it must have really
impacted this community
of that you can be sure the amount of
people that died
really really shook the community and
and nobody expected
well as we i said um david joins us now
live on the program uh good morning to
you uh thank you for joining us uh from
vancouver i know you're doing some
filming over there at the moment
it feels like um a really powerful story
to tell in this documentary
david why did you want to tell it
it's it's just a very actually very a
very personal story obviously when i
when i
um flew back into england at the very
very start of the
of of uh of this whole pandemic
i i sort of walked into a kind of wall
of information and
some of the things that were trickling
into me were that with the most of the
doctors that were
that first died uh during that first
wave of
i think 95 percent of the doctors that
uh died during that first wave of of
of covid were from black or or
or asian backgrounds and like what i
thought why was that and then the more i
kind of learned about it i i kind of
understood that this
virus seemed to seem to be affecting uh
people of color
uh disproportionately and obviously
being a person of color i wanted to kind
of find out why so this is me
just sort of really having a look and
for and kind of investigating the
reasons why
i look at vitamin d i look at you know
genetics
biology um and just try to investigate
exactly
um why this this disease seems to be
disproportionately affecting us
i suppose that the the assumption that
maybe we incorrectly make is that there
are
biological issues involved in that but
through the course of this documentary
you look at the
sort of societal factors don't you
well as i look at them they just started
to reveal themselves i mean
it's not like they're it's i mean
they've been there for a long time i
don't think this has been
um a secret you know i mean health
inequality has existed for
for for a very very long time i think
the coronal virus has really just
revealed that and i think
this uh uh this this documentary
really for me started to unfold and um
you know i started to see just just
basically how
uh societal factors uh
disproportionately
impact our communities of color yeah the
documentary does as you said um it
spells that out quite
quite clearly and you mentioned right
the start of our
uh chat here on the program that it was
a personal journey because you spoke to
your sister sandra as well didn't you
for this program
yes yes i did she's wonderful the first
first time she's been on the telly with
me but it was great to see her
great to work with her and and
carry on we were sort of
we were kind of running and listening
and talking about you know our parents
you know our parents came here and
and you know we're in those sort of
front-facing
forward-facing roles cleaners and
drivers and
uh um you know working in factories and
and you know many many uh communities of
color still
uh are still doing those same jobs and i
think we were just we just kind of
uh you know just commented on on that
fact that it seems that
it was still having difficulty as it
were sort of climbing up the social
uh ladder and if people do watch this
tonight it's it's called
why is kobe killing people of color it's
on bbc one at nine o'clock
they'll hear about um a theory from
america called weathering a a theory on
racism which which you talk about in the
program
um just explain exactly what that is
well weathering is a term which which
was uh dr
um uh uh geronimous uh
uh uh uh i think her name is and she is
she
she is uh she she has her study
involves involved looking at the the
almost the biological age of of black
people in america she
she was suggesting that the stress of
racism the stress
of dealing of of living in a uh under an
oppressive system
almost physiologically ages uh black
people
it is so it's it's almost like a wearing
process a sort of a sort of weathering
process but it's
it's it's uh it's it's it's an an
incredible way of
describing living in a society where
you're continuously sort of
under stress and um and your sort of
reality is sort of denied so it's
it's um i thought it was just a a
wonderful term and a wonderful way
a wonderful descriptive way of
describing that sort of stress
uh the documentary touches on the black
lives matter movement and the death of
george floyd as well
i know you're in vancouver at this time
but um
back here in the uk there's quite a
discussion in um football particularly
at the moment about
uh taking the knee before games there
are some black players who say
they don't want to do it anymore some
clubs have made that decision as well
they've talked about it maybe
running its course and and being sort of
wallpaper i've seen it described as as
well
do you think that what we saw
predominantly last year has that been a
positive catalyst for change overall
overall and no doubt it's particularly
in america particularly in corporate
america and
particularly i'm particularly working
for warner brothers right now and you
know they have made significant changes
uh since george floyd and in terms of
management so the structure and
in terms of in terms of uh the structure
of
of of uh and makeup of crews so they've
made significant changes but yes i think
you know perhaps that
perhaps gestures uh the original
gestures that
that were now two three years old
perhaps it is time to perhaps
you know move on from there and i you
know i i i would also note that
um racism against black footballers has
gone up
since um uh players have been taking the
knee so
it seems you know i i do think perhaps
there's
maybe another way of addressing the
problem addressing the issue
you